---
title: 'Database Administrator (2 Vacancies)'
jobid: 5
publish: 2014-12-05 12:00 -0500
expire: 2014-12-05 12:00 -0500
category: mis
sub_category: 
layout: career
---
<p>The Administrative Office of the Courts is in the process of developing a statewide, unified, multi-jurisdictional Case Management System across the Oklahoma Judiciary.  Requirements analysis and the Joint Applications Design have been completed and we are seeking, eager, talented, self-motivated individuals to join our MIS team to take the construction and implementation of the Oklahoma Case Management System (CMS) forward.  In this capacity, you will have the opportunity to collaborate with a highly experienced team and join them in influencing the design, construction, and testing of the statewide CMS application.  If you would like to bring your talents to bear in the exciting and challenging effort ahead of us, please submit your cover letter and resume for consideration as described below.</p><p>The Database Administrator should possess the skills necessary to perform database tasks such as security planning, architecture design, performance tuning, capacity planning, maintenance, troubleshooting and change control.</p><p>A successful candidate will be able to provide key data recommendations and best practice solutions to project teams and governance committees as requested. The Administrator will be responsible for planning, management, and support of all database applications.</p><p><strong>Responsibilities will include (but are not limited to) the following:</strong></p><ul><li>Ensure data integrity, data security and performance of production databases.</li><li>Design and construct highly available and secure databases, data warehouses, data marts, and business intelligence platforms.</li><li>Support departmental operations in a high-throughput production environment by proactively managing the performance, integrity, and security of Court Applications' databases and database servers. </li><li>Create databases and database objects such as tables, indexes, views, triggers, and stored procedures.</li><li>Create and maintain customized database reports and perform data analysis.</li><li>Maintain reliability of data and databases, and assist in developing and implementing standards for database maintenance and configuration.</li><li>Synchronize and migrate data and database objects between development, quality assurance, and production environments. </li><li>Setup, manage, and maintain reporting services database and security.</li></ul><p><strong>Knowledge and Skill Requirements:</strong></p><ul><li>Working knowledge of virtualization (Hyper-V, VMWare), clustering, replication, encryption, SSIS, SCOM, SAN storage, and powershell.</li><li>Working knowledge of Data Quality and Data Conversion techniques.</li><li>Working knowledge of Windows Server 2003, 2008 or 2012 Operating Systems.</li><li>Excellent communication skills – oral and written.</li><li>Experience with Court operations is a plus.</li></ul><p><strong>Education/ Experience:</strong></p><ul><li>Bachelors’ degree in Computer Science/Information Systems or related technical field.</li><li>5 years of hands-on experience with Microsoft SQL Server.</li><li>Experience maintaining multiple large database systems consisting of normalized and de-normalized data and table structures.</li><li>Experience maintaining and administering a SQL Server Reporting Services server.</li><li>Experience with data modeling techniques, including relational and dimensional modeling.</li><li>Experience with physical data modeling techniques including use of indexes, materialized views, system aggregates, partitioning, etc.</li><li>Experience with developing data warehouse solutions is a plus.</li></ul><p><strong>Special Requirements</strong>:</p><ul><li>Occasional evening and weekend work.</li><li>Occasional travel to remote office locations within the state of Oklahoma.</li></ul>