---
title: 'Programmer'
jobid: 9
publish: 2015-01-19 12:00 -0500
expire: 2015-02-25 12:00 -0500
category: mis
sub_category: 
location: 
hrlogic: 20
layout: career
---
<p>The Administrative Office of the Courts is in the process of developing a statewide, unified, multi-jurisdictional Case Management System across the Oklahoma Judiciary.  Requirements analysis and the Joint Applications Design have been completed and we are seeking, eager, talented, self-motivated individuals to join our MIS team to take the construction and implementation of the Oklahoma Case Management System (CMS) forward.  In this capacity, you will have the opportunity to collaborate with a highly experienced team and join them in influencing the design, construction, and testing of the statewide CMS application.  If you would like to bring your talents to bear in the exciting and challenging effort ahead of us, please submit your cover letter and resume for consideration as described below.</p><p><strong>Position Description:</strong></p><p>The Programmer should possess the skills necessary to develop and maintain software for new and existing software projects, web sites, win forms, web/win services, database development and commercial off the shelf (COTS) interfaces.</p><p>A successful candidate will be able to maintain existing software applications for necessary modifications and new features using C# and .NET technologies and integrate new and existing COTS products into in-house applications and or other COTS products.</p><p><strong>Responsibilities will include (but are not limited to) the following:</strong></p><p>To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each of the following essential duties:</p><ul><li>Develop new applications using .NET technologies.</li><li>Integrate new and existing COTS products into in-house applications and or other COTS products.</li><li>Develop and support SSRS and HTML reports, both financial and statistical. </li><li>Develop and support complex T-SQL stored procedures, views, and functions.</li><li>Maintain existing VB6/COM+ applications.</li><li>Design software systems from requirements, interactions with users, business analysts, system analysts, and collaborative input from peers and others.</li><li>Develop software support documentation, including graphical representations (UML, Visio etc.), used for programming and testing.</li><li>Work with Quality Assurance (QA) personnel to ensure software meets software quality standards.</li><li>Estimate work needed to complete assigned tasks and commit to their completion.</li><li>Participate in peer review of software designs, programs, and test results.</li><li>Work after hours as needed to implement software into production.</li></ul><ul><strong>Knowledge and Skill Requirements:</strong><li>Strong knowledge of XML and object oriented programming technologies.</li><li>Working knowledge of n-tier application design along with basic principles of computer science: object-oriented programming, algorithms, data structures and multi-threading.</li><li>Working knowledge of Microsoft Office applications including Visio. </li><li>Working knowledge of software engineering, software life cycle, and security principles.</li><li>Strong troubleshooting, research and problem solving skills.</li><li>Detail-oriented with strong organizational and documentation skills.</li><li>Excellent communication skills – oral and written.</li><li>Ability to work in teams and independently when required.</li></ul><ul><strong>Education / Experience:</strong><li>Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Information Systems, or related field, or equivalent work experience. </li><li>1 year experience with .NET programming.</li><li>1 year experience with SQL and T-SQL. </li><li>Prior experience in the court system, legal field, or accounting is a plus.</li><li>VB6/COM+ programming experience is a plus. </li></ul>