---
title: 'Inventory Control Technician Intern'
jobid: 79
publish: 2016-11-30 12:00 -0500
expire: 2016-12-07 12:00 -0500
category: mis
sub_category: AOC
location: Oklahoma City
hrlogic: 20
layout: career
---
<p>The Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) is seeking a self-motivated person to join the organization as an Inventory Control Technician Intern.  The Inventory Control Technician Intern should possess the skills necessary to provide operational support for the information systems of the Administrative Office of the Courts.</p>
<p><strong>Position Description:</strong></p>
<p>Reporting to the Technical Services Division, the Inventory Control Technician Intern is responsible for assisting with receiving and distributing materials and equipment, including entering data into the inventory management system; preparing surplus equipment for shipping, transferring materials and equipment to offsite storage, preparing materials for shipment and conducting regular inventory analysis. </p>
<p><strong>Responsibilities and essential functions will include (but not be limited to) the following:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Ability to work as part of a team as well as independently, when required.</li>
<li>Manage and maintain parts inventory.</li>
<li>Review stock and inventory turnover to establish optimum holding costs; and making acquisition recommendations in the department’s best interest.</li>
<li>Receive, examine goods shipped and verify completeness of orders and reconcile against bills, invoices, and/or other documents.</li>
<li>Prepare materials, parts and goods for shipment to be picked up or delivered to Court locations.</li>
<li>Load and unload inventory onto or from pallets, bins, racks and shelving.</li>
<li>Manage the marking or tagging of items received for identification purposes to stock inventory.</li>
<li>Pick up parts, tools and equipment from local vendors and deliver to staff and department.</li>
<li>Enter material information and pricing data used by staff onto work orders generated by the inventory management system.</li>
<li>Input inventory control transactions into the inventory management system, including cost, description and vendor.</li>
<li>Conduct regular physical inventory counts. Ensure that MIS records are kept current and available.</li>
<li>Maintain a clean and orderly work area and warehouse at all times.</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Knowledge and Skill Requirements:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Must be able to lift 50 pounds and perform moderately demanding physical tasks.</li>
<li>Occasional travel to remote office locations within the state of Oklahoma.</li>
<li>Working knowledge of Microsoft Office applications.</li>
<li>Must have good communication skills.</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Education / Experience:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>High school diploma or equivalent. </li>
<li>Specialized courses related to materials management, inventory is preferred.</li>
<li>General inventory experience preferred.</li>
<li>Experience with inventory technology management systems preferred.</li></ul>
<p><strong>Position open until December 9, 2016. Submit resume, cover letter and availability date via email with "Inventory Control Technician Intern" in message title to</strong> <a href="mailto:opportunities@oscn.net" target="_blank">opportunities@oscn.net</a>.  The Supreme Court of Oklahoma Administrative Office of the Courts 2100 N. Lincoln Blvd., Suite 3 Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73105. <a href="http://www.oscn.net" target="_blank">http://www.oscn.net</a></p>
<p>Candidates who are eligible to work in the United States are encouraged to apply.   The Administrative Office of the Courts will not sponsor a work visa (H-1B, etc.) to fill this position.</p>
<p>As a condition of employment, any successful candidate who receives an offer of employment will be required to pass a background investigation.</p>
<p>The Oklahoma Supreme Court is an Equal Opportunity Employer.</p>