---
published: true
layout: career
jobid: '2017-04-28 08:40 -0500'
publish: '2017-04-28 08:40 -0500'
title: Inventory Control Technician Intern
category:
  - mis
sub_category:
  - AOC
expire: '2017-05-31 14:11 -0500'
---
The Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) is seeking a self-motivated person to join the organization as an **Inventory Control Technician Intern**.  The **Inventory Control Technician Intern** should possess the skills necessary to provide operational support for the information systems of the Administrative Office of the Courts.
 
**Position Description:**

Reporting to the Technical Services Division, the **Inventory Control Technician Intern** is responsible for assisting with receiving and distributing materials and equipment, including entering data into the inventory management system; preparing surplus equipment for shipping, transferring materials and equipment to offsite storage, preparing materials for shipment and conducting regular inventory analysis. 

**Responsibilities and essential functions will include (but not be limited to) the following:**

- Ability to work as part of a team as well as independently, when required.
- Manage and maintain parts inventory.
- Review stock and inventory turnover to establish optimum holding costs; and making acquisition recommendations in the department’s best interest.
- Receive, examine goods shipped and verify completeness of orders and reconcile against bills, invoices, and/or other documents.
- Prepare materials, parts and goods for shipment to be picked up or delivered to Court locations.
- Load and unload inventory onto or from pallets, bins, racks and shelving.
- Manage the marking or tagging of items received for identification purposes to stock inventory.
- Pick up parts, tools and equipment from local vendors and deliver to staff and department.
- Enter material information and pricing data used by staff onto work orders generated by the inventory management system.
- Input inventory control transactions into the inventory management system, including cost, description and vendor.
- Conduct regular physical inventory counts. Ensure that MIS records are kept current and available.
- Maintain a clean and orderly work area and warehouse at all times.
- Other duties as assigned.

**Knowledge and Skill Requirements:**

- Must be able to lift 50 pounds and perform moderately demanding physical tasks.
- Occasional travel to remote office locations within the state of Oklahoma.
- Working knowledge of Microsoft Office applications.
- Must have good communication skills.


**Education / Experience:**

- High school diploma or equivalent. 
- Specialized courses related to materials management, inventory is preferred.
- General inventory experience preferred.
- Experience with inventory technology management systems preferred.
