---
published: true
layout: career
jobid: '2019-07-09 10:55 -0500'
publish: '2019-07-09 10:55 -0500'
title: Senior Business Analyst
category:
  - mis
sub_category:
  - AOC
location: Oklahoma City
---
The Administrative Office of the Courts is in the process of developing a statewide, unified, multi-jurisdictional Case Management System across the Oklahoma Judiciary.  To that end, the Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) is seeking a self-motivated person to join the organization as a **Senior Business Analyst** with opportunity for growth to Product Owner.  The position should possess the skills necessary to provide operational support for the information systems of the Administrative Office of the Courts.

**Position Description:**

Reporting to the Information Systems Manager (ISM), the **Senior Business Analyst** will work with their manager and court staff to analyze and elicit court business requirements, produce business and functional specifications, and document business scenarios.  This position will fully understand Appellate and District Court processes and will be able to clearly communicate those to cross-functional team members both in written and verbal form. The individual must be detailed oriented, able to clearly communicate, and an analytical thinker.

The **Senior Business Analyst** is the most important role for ensuring an Agile project successfully delivers value to the business.  This IT professional is responsible for setting, prioritizing, and evaluating the work generated by a software agile team in order to ensure impeccable features and functionality of the product.  He/she will review any completed product backlog items against the definition of ready or done and accepts them as completed, or rejects for further development of acceptance criteria or forward to the development team to redevelop or repair bugs. The analyst collaborates daily with the business analyst and development teams to progress work and answer questions.



**Responsibilities and essential functions will include (but not be limited to) the following:**

- Identify, assess, and document court business and functional requirements.
- Analyze the impact of proposed solutions across appellate and district court operations.
- Understand current business processes and define future business processes. 
- Develops product vision, roadmap and requirements.
- Develop use cases to explain and demonstrate requirements and specifications to the MIS team.
- Facilitate software requirements gathering sessions with users.
- Work with multiple simultaneous projects by identifying requirements, facilitating change management, supporting execution team
- Clearly expresses customer needs in the form of user stories and product requirements, clearly logged, and documented.
- Provide requirement inputs during technical design sessions, review design deliverable for consistency and as a source of requirements
- Ensure that project team has clear understanding of functional requirements and business expectations
- Prioritizes and sequences backlog items to best achieve goals and missions, and manages tradeoffs in allocating engineering and other resources.
- Refines backlog based on product changes, dev progress, and stakeholder feedback.
- Ensures with an applications/development team that the Product Backlog is visible, transparent, and clear to all, and shows what the development team will work on next.
- Prepare and/or review end user documentation, training materials, curriculum and schedule.
- Conduct training session for a product or an implementation, including train the trainer approach
- Manage software application configuration changes through a user interface.
- Collaborate with Creative team and ensure that User Experience and Visual Design align with Functional Requirements
- Lead and support User Acceptance Testing (UAT).
- Create and maintain requirements traceability.
- Engage stakeholders, facilitate workshops, conduct client interviews to define business goals and elicit business requirements
- Develop test plans for new systems problems and/or enhancements, as needed.
- Execute test cases and document defects, as needed.
- Conduct training sessions in both large group and individual training environments.
- Work with end users and cross-functional teams to support existing court applications.
- Implement systems throughout the State of Oklahoma.
- Performs other related duties as required.

**Knowledge and Skill Requirements:**

- Superior analytical and problem solving skills, including the ability to ask leading questions and analyze the business impact on proposed solutions. Must be self-starting, hardworking and inquisitive.
- Excellent communication skills, oral and written, including technical writing experience.  Must work well with others of all personality types in an intense environment. 
- Demonstrated experience working with Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office required.
- Experience with court operations and business processes preferred.
- Accounting background preferred. Strong leadership, time management, and problem-solving skills.
- Ability to train users on new system features and translate a system process into a business process.
- Public speaking experience in a variety of settings.
- Statewide travel with overnight stay required.  Weekend work required during statewide implementation.

**Education / Experience:**

- Business Admin, Computer Science, MIS, or related four-year degree.   Five years professional analysis experience may be substituted for a degree.
- 3+ years of relevant software business analyst experience.
- Knowledge in court processes preferred.
- Strong experience with source control systems (TFS) a plus.
- Two (2) or more years with a software application development organization.
- Working Senior knowledge of Automation, SDLC, methodologies, tools and processes.
- A minimum of 3 years leading people (either through influence or direct report).
- ITIL and Agile certification(s) preferred.
- DevOps experience preferred
- Experience in court systems preferred.

