---
published: true
layout: career
jobid: '2022-07-15 09:50 -0500'
publish: '2022-07-15 09:50 -0500'
expire: '2022-08-29 09:50 -0500'
title: Database Administrator Intern
category:
  - aoc
sub_category:
  - AOC
location: Oklahoma City
---
The Database Administrator Intern in this role has key ownership of day-to-day activities within the Judiciary’s MIS department. Additionally, this role functions as an administrator of the database servers across thirteen VLANs.  This position has a very strong operational focus, requiring discipline and meticulous troubleshooting skills. Operational excellence is expected and will be evidenced by results.

**Responsibilities:**

- Ability to support basic database administrator operations, troubleshooting, database health checks, monitor scheduled jobs, and generate reports.
- Ability to work on Cherwell tickets that are generated by both internal and county agents.
- With the assistance of the Systems team, develop automation scripts for deployments, identify and automate tasks that are repetitive.
- Create documentation for all the database inventory and its peripherals.
- Ability to present ideas for discussion and provide recommendations on database automation.
- Ability to function in a team environment, supporting team members when needed

**Education and Experience Qualifications:**

- BS/BA degree in IT or related field preferred; equivalent experience may be substituted in lieu of education.
- Database and automation certifications are a plus.
- Coding knowledge with TSQL, PLSQL, and PowerShell is desirable.
- Demonstrable history of success with customer service and interpersonal skills.

**Required Knowledge, Skills, or Abilities:**

- Knowledge of Microsoft SQL Server Database Systems and tools.(SQL Server 2016 – 2019)
- Familiarity with PostgreSQL and MySQL is desirable 
- Knowledge of tools for optimization and database tuning.
- Exposure to any DevOps platforms and Cloud architecture is great to have.
- Knowledge of Database Systems, SQL Programming, Query concepts, and tools.
- Complete understanding of database and project lifecycle process
- An understanding of Version Control systems is desirable
- Ability to troubleshoot operational issues and support On-call rotation.
- Must be able to communicate clearly and effectively in-person, over the phone, and in writing
- Working knowledge of other IT facets like Server, DB, Storage, Security, Cloud, etc. to “see the big picture”.
