---
published: true
layout: career
jobid: '2023-05-04 14:13 -0500'
publish: '2023-05-04 14:13 -0500'
expire: '2023-10-04 14:13 -0500'
title: Inventory Control Technician
sub_category:
  - AOC
category:
  - mis
location: Oklahoma City
---
Reporting to the Technical Services Support Manager, the **Inventory Control Technician** is responsible for receiving and distributing materials and equipment, including entering data into the inventory management system; preparing materials for shipment, conducting regular inventory analysis, managing surplus equipment, organization and management of offsite storage, inventory control within the judicial center and district courts.    

The **Inventory Control Technician** should possess the skills necessary to provide operational support for the information systems of the Administrative Office of the Courts.

This is a part-time position working 20 hours a week.

**Responsibilities and essential functions will include (but not be limited to) the following:**

- Ability to work as part of a team as well as independently, when required.
- Manage and maintain parts inventory.
- Review stock and inventory turnover to establish optimum holding costs, and making acquisition recommendations in the department’s best interest.
- Review current inventory facilities and perform an inventory of obsolete equipment and supplies, provide Technical Service Manager with a monthly report for proper disposition.
- Receive, examine goods ship, verify completeness of orders, and reconcile against bills, invoices, and/or other documents.
- Prepare materials, parts and goods for shipment to be picked-up or delivered to Court locations.
- Load and unload inventory onto or from pallets, bins, racks and shelving.
- Manage the marking or tagging of items received for identification purposes to stock inventory.
- Pick up parts, tools and equipment from local vendors and deliver to staff and department.
- Enter material information and pricing data used by staff onto work orders generated by the inventory management system.
- Input inventory control transactions into the inventory management system, including cost, description and vendor.
- Conduct regular physical inventory counts in the district courts and judicial center. Ensure that MIS records are current, available, and accurate.
- Complete annual inventory validation of judicial center and district courts no later than June 15th of each financial year.
- Managing receiving and disposition of surplus equipment identify alternate uses for equipment if feasible.
- Create a monthly report on inbound/outbound materials (toner, supplies, and equipment) for the Technical Support Manager.
- Weekly provide an inventory report to managers related to the equipment, toner, supplies, etc being stored in the inventory room or in an offsite facility.
- Responsible for validation of broken equipment and creating the necessary RMA forms for equipment replacement.
- Maintain a clean and orderly work area, inventory room, and offsite facility at all times.
- Document inventory controls and processes for audit purposes, including an annual review of the controls/processes.
- Work with Technical Services team on pulling equipment for site deployment or equipment pull for next day field trip.
- Perform all other duties as assigned.

**Knowledge and Skill Requirements:**

- Inventory Auditing knowledge and education are required.
- Must be able to lift 50 pounds and perform moderately demanding physical tasks.
- Occasional travel to remote office locations within the state of Oklahoma requires Oklahoma Driver License.
- Required to perform pre-travel safety checklist on stated owned vehicles before driving to remote office locations.
- Required to attend and pass a defensive drive safety course that adheres to state motor vehicle regulations.
- Proven organization and inventory processing skills 

**Education / Experience:**

- High school diploma or equivalent. 
- Specialized courses related to materials management, inventory is preferred
- Minimum of 5 year’s general inventory experience. 
- Minimum of 3 years of experience with inventory technology management systems 
- Working knowledge of Microsoft Office applications.

